Gwenevere Abriel: Oh hey, how are ya.
Ariel Mirabal: Are you good
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to laugh. You know, we're sitting here and I'm saying, oh, I made this mistake. I didn't do this bio psychosocial I did too. I did too. I did it. I did the first time I met you. So I'm just
Ariel Mirabal: I'm listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: To this woman in the care Navigator. She's like, Yeah, you need to do the bio psychosocial and I'm like, I never make that mistake, right. Like, how can I do that what to do that. And I didn't make the mistake I did too. I did too.
Ariel Mirabal: I remember the questions. Yeah, I just thought that you probably had like another one or something for me to do. I wasn't sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know we get to just
Gwenevere Abriel: Be
Cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Physically
Gwenevere Abriel: Last 24 hours. Has there been any relief. Are you feeling good.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm feeling better. I had my medication on Thursday and yesterday.
Ariel Mirabal: I was feeling a lot better. I don't have anything for today, yet though, and until she calls right in after today. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then as soon as you and I get in a groove, it's going to feel so much easier it'll just be bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just right up while everybody settles in and try tries to understand, you know, is it really, really, really have to go to any services or can I not you know people sort of settling into it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll feel a lot easier.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it's hard in the beginning.
Gwenevere Abriel: I start up a note here. And so, feeling better. How many days. Have you felt. Are you feeling normal
Ariel Mirabal: I do feel like I'm feeling normal. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: For 24 hours 12 hours someone or you had normal
Ariel Mirabal: I'm probably I'm starting to feel a little weird. Now, so probably just the last few hours. I've been up since about six this morning.
Ariel Mirabal: But before that, I mean, I felt normal all day yesterday. So, okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Now say
Gwenevere Abriel: Days, probably about you're getting your, your dose.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, but I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: What time of day. Did you take your full dose yesterday.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, I take you it within the first hour that I wake up, so it's I get my cup coffee. Then I take it so it's about
Ariel Mirabal: On average, I wake up about seven in the morning. So I would say I wasn't exactly sure yesterday, but I'll say about seven. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Awesome, you know, you'd want to get in there pretty quickly. So, all right, I got you. So that might be what's going on here. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's see what we talked about. I talked to you a little bit about
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, the diaphragm matic breathing. I talked to you a little bit about this distinction between the voice of addiction in our head, the one that's like I grow, you can get away with it once. No one's going to know that one.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus the
Ariel Mirabal: Mentor
Gwenevere Abriel: Which does something like, is this really going to get you the life you want, you know, is this good for you know role modeling health for our daughter and you know it it really speaks a very different message it speaks from your core values the authentic self is is you
Ariel Mirabal: Right. Um, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I was curious, I, I just
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't remember when I was teaching you the belly breathing. Did I do it from all the way from the beginning. Really formally explain the the poly bagel theory to you.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, I think you said we were going to you're going to explain it after. But then we started getting into a few other things. I thought so. We did it. We doing it, but I don't. I don't know if you've explained to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I wonder if it would be better if if if we just sort of slow down and I was more thorough in my explanation and my modeling of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can find out from you. First, to see if that's how it's a
good use of your time.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people they come into the program already having sort of a practice in place, they already have this sort of breath work that they've learned maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: From a friend or from a therapist or maybe you know yoga instructor or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: The
Gwenevere Abriel: The actual instruction and originally I called it box breathing, because it was really formal and I'd like to restart and teach it that way, and see if
Gwenevere Abriel: See how it feels for you. So I'm not going to do it casually I'ma do it really formally and I'm going to invite you to do it the way the instruction is
Gwenevere Abriel: And then once you get it, then do it kind of whatever works for you, but something really interesting happens when we try to we do something new and we try to do it with fidelity.
Gwenevere Abriel: It takes all of our concentration and it can get us away from all of this sort of negative neural network.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're very focused on trying to do it just right we're concentrating on all these subtle pieces and it's effective in getting us out of an anxious thought a depressed thought or a fear response. So that's kind of a cool feature.
Gwenevere Abriel: I stopped calling it box breathing, because people weren't remembering the most important thing being that the that the belly gets pushed out when we feel all the air into the lungs. So I stopped calling it that. Now I just call it belly breathing so no one forgets.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I want to give the instruction because
Gwenevere Abriel: It is the skill that people I've been seeing for years at this point are like, Nope.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember the breathing. That's what gets me that's what gets me there. So now what may happening be happening. Afterwards, the cognitive reframing the change in their beliefs about confidence of the self and all those things.
Gwenevere Abriel: They may not be aware that those things are going on. But what they're remember is the breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's fine if everything else falls in line after that. Fantastic. That's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I do want to take my time with it because I'm watching over these years. It's that pivotal
Gwenevere Abriel: So the instruction is this. I'm going to teach it, then I'll do it. And you can do it with me or not. But then on purpose will do an activity where I'll invite you to pull up a tiny little distress moment, and we'll see if it's effective. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the instructions are these and I'll use the shape of my screen to sort of work, the squares of these four seconds. So it's like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be I'm inhaling through my nose for four seconds. And as I'm inhaling through my nose. I'm paying attention to the temperature of the air, how it feels, on my nose. Here's an all the way into the bottom of my lung and I can feel
Gwenevere Abriel: That the lung is expanding down at the bottom that's going on for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I hold the breath for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I exhale out of the mouth, and I'm going to flat net belly flat and I'm going to pierce my lips in here. We do it you know like that in the real world. Obviously if you don't want to look like that. You don't have to, but in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's your choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's on purpose in here because part of it is being able to fear. Feel the pair slips feel the difference is that air goes out and you're really paying attention to the compression
Gwenevere Abriel: Of that long. And as even as the stomach flattens and it's not touching the fabric of the shirt anymore. We're literally paying attention.
Gwenevere Abriel: To as much as we possibly can. That's going to get us out of, oh, what's going to happen tomorrow. What about 10 years from now, you know, it gets us out of that rumination out of that fretful thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: And for a lot of people, they're having these panic moments and they want to get out of that they want to be in a regulated body. They want the muscles to relax. They want to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so, so on the exhale. It'll be
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321
Gwenevere Abriel: A belly breath and then the hold it for
One.
Gwenevere Abriel: To kind of get it right. It's like it's inhale for four seconds then you hold the breath for four seconds. So what, when we do it together. That was still the instruction part. Maybe you experimented with, I don't know. I have my eyes closed.
Ariel Mirabal: And
Gwenevere Abriel: You did okay Coco goal so
Gwenevere Abriel: You might want to try with your eyes closed. It's up to you. Really tuning into the tactile experience of it, the visceral like really feeling like how different it is to break down there and
Gwenevere Abriel: The holding of the breath is interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: The instruction is four seconds I have a really hard time holding all my breath out for four seconds that's like our like what, so don't get hung up on
Gwenevere Abriel: Number, if it turns out, like if we have any kind of smoking stuff, it can be like, oof, or if there's any kind of asthma stuff. It can feel a little different.
Gwenevere Abriel: So don't get too too hung up on the seconds I say 44444 because it's easy to remember. But when you find your own group, you might end up doing something like this.
Ariel Mirabal: Went through like three seconds or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the exhale might be your longest piece where you just push it out for like six seconds. You can stretch that baby out and then you won't hold the breath for very long. Maybe only be to
Gwenevere Abriel: The part that's neat about it is it's novel. It's new, it's, it's so detail oriented. It's difficult to do that. It gets your mind off of wherever it was before. And just to explain a little bit about the physio biology of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did I talk to you about the Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I probably talked about the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. Right.
Ariel Mirabal: I think so, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: Has a I won't get into the dorsal Vegas nerve that it that has to do with the social regulation that it offers but this one the Vegas nerve where the activation is the
Gwenevere Abriel: Expansion of the belly when it does this, and it expands it smashes down the diaphragm, because the Vegas nerve. The Wandering nerve is attached to all kinds of organs, all the way down our body brain face heart, lungs,
Gwenevere Abriel: Stomach spleen kidneys, all of that. And because when we breathe that big belly breath as opposed to appear when we push it down that belly expands, it does push those organs below the diaphragm and it sends the message upward and says, Oh, we're taking a big deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess we're okay. I guess we don't need to fight. We don't need to run
Gwenevere Abriel: We can slow the heart rate, we can slow the rate of respiration and we can have the progress. Okay. All right. We're all right so that's physiologically what's happened. You don't have to believe what I'm saying, in order for it to work.
It's interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know right. It's cool. It's kind of neat to know there's some science behind it.
Gwenevere Abriel: The discovery actually of this that the Vegas nerve has the social the social wiring.
Gwenevere Abriel: That one is my eliminated ones on mile unaided, which means it has this fat coding, so that the nerves, the messages travel more efficiently. We'll get into another time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which has to do with why we we benefit from talking to someone, why it feels good to finally like talk to someone finally understands us. We look at them and we hear their tone of voice, the property.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we feel known we feel cared for and we are no longer in distress. That's part of the Vegas nerve, but it's the ventral Vegas.
Ariel Mirabal: Part
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's pretty neat to know, why is it feels so good to finally talk to a buddy that really gets me
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it's so cool. So cool. I love that science is catching up because it really legitimize psychology. It's like, well, we've known this forever.
Ariel Mirabal: reason behind it. Yeah, that's really interesting.
Ariel Mirabal: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: It is neat. But it gets to work, even though we we didn't know for a long, long time. Why is this, what is this feels so good.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be, you know, why is it important that this person that that I've established trust with that they really listened to me and I feel heard by them. Now you know why so
Gwenevere Abriel: So the breath is very important. So let's practice it doing it together for you what what so far. Seems the hardest part was it getting the air to the belly or counting what seems hard
Ariel Mirabal: I think I'm counting, everything was fine. I think that like I focus a lot on like expanding my my belly out because I noticed that a lot of times when I inhale really fast, like you said, yeah, it goes in like it doesn't expand my belly out, you know, I'm like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh good, I'm glad you told me. That's why I asked this question. So we're going to focus just on that part because it literally
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the one thing that makes this thing work. The rest of it. I don't even know how critical it is. It's just part of, I'm going to bring this
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got a desk that allows me to stand on my feet for a few hours a day. So bring this puppy up
Gwenevere Abriel: So the part that's important is the belly breath. That's why I call it the belly breath. So let's um
Gwenevere Abriel: One way is to expand that sort of chest as you can either do the lazy boy. Put your hands behind your head be chill. You can tuck them under your thighs and that yeah you already seem really open. So, that's perfect.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you allow the seat to hold you up. And this is what we'll do first, we're only going to do. I don't care about timing. I just want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Once you're going to get rid of all the air. You can have your hands on your belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the only thing you're going to concentrate on is that the air is coming in the top and it pushes those hands out. So if we if the hands don't go out because of the inhale and we're not quite there yet. So let's give it a try. Push all the air out and now in my hands went out.
And then
Gwenevere Abriel: So it really pressed your hands on your tummy.
Sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so then we'll exhale all the air out flat, flat, flat tummy and yeah we want with our inhale. That's the only way those hands are going out as if we're expanding a balloon in there, it won't go very big it'll only come out about like
Gwenevere Abriel: Just a little. Nothing much. Not like it does when we do this heaving thing with our shoulders.
Ariel Mirabal: air out. Make sure all of your errors out right
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a good way to check some all the air out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then inhale through the nose expand a balloon down the bottom of the lung, the hands will come out, because of course there's a big chunk of air in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll probably only come out like that far. It's not like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll like it'll probably go like that. Just like a little so I watched this. So this is what you look like this might be helpful. So this is you watch my shoulders.
Gwenevere Abriel: See my shoulders. Move your shoulders want. That's a good cue that it's going up high. So what we do is we go okay shoulders. You guys can't move. You don't need to move. If the arrows going down low. So now, can you tell if my if my tummy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the one getting the air, watch, watch my shoulder. See if they move
Gwenevere Abriel: They don't move at all. Haha. That's how I know that's my trick. So you're, you're still doing this kind of stuff when you're breathing. So I'm getting the sense of the errors coming in here. So we want it to go way down low. So let's watch our hands.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then watch those hand expand on the inhale.
Are you noticing.
Ariel Mirabal: My shoulders not moving. I'm doing I'm doing a lot better with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's really different. And you notice the it doesn't it doesn't seem like it's that much air, it just barely moves, even down there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's all full here but dispersed all the way through this long. And so it doesn't really move the belly too much, but we'll you'll be able to see that the the shoulders are not going to be rising up and down.
Right.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's really different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice, right. I'm glad you mentioned that. That was, that was the challenge. So let's do a couple of them and your concentration, I would say, Keep your hands on your belly. So I'll do all do some counting
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't be counting on the inhale, or the exhale because I can't count breathe. At the same time, haven't figured out that technique.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I will, I will do. So I'll say, Hold 321
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's so let's exhale all our air out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 excellent out your mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's hold 321. Inhale, big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's hold 321 exhale it out your mouth feeling the air coming out of your mouth. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat belly. Flat. Flat pull it out. Hold it out. And let's inhale through the nose when you're ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: big belly ice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold, hold, hold, exhale it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good hold it out for 321 nice inhale. Finally, we get that Aaron yummy, yummy into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're going to hold it in there with a full range and 321 push it all out. Feel that cold air warm air coming out your mouth feel it. Nice nice nice nice nice Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat. Flat hold it out out out. Inhale in. When you're ready, into that knows
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. Hold it there. Hold it there. Hold it there. When you're ready, let it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now on your own on your own count just run some cycles through
Ariel Mirabal: Can come on air. Yeah, I can look
Gwenevere Abriel: Really different hot
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So did you notice that you were able to think about the breakfast you had breakfast you want anything else.
Ariel Mirabal: Just don't really come like I wasn't focused anymore. And like exactly every, you know, little move is yeah just
Gwenevere Abriel: Get your mind wander to your to do list.
Ariel Mirabal: No, not at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the reasons why it didn't believe it or not, your mind does want to do one thing. Well, I know we say multitask is like the cool thing. And I'm so awesome at it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're not we suck at two things at once is what we're doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: The brain wants to just do what it wants the our, our brain be like, Oh, I've never seen one of these before it loves novelty, you're like, Hey, what was that, what's this it loves new
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Whoo.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're learning something new. You're seeing something you're you're feeling something new. It had your full attention. So that's one thing that's kind of neat course. It's going to habituate over time.
Gwenevere Abriel: The newness of it. But the reason why I gave the instruction about fidelity, which means doing it exactly with the counting. We try to do it for four seconds. Hold it for four seconds. It's not because I think there's some magic in those that number four. It's because it's hard to do.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's supposed to notice how you like it wasn't as hard. Well, I gotta be careful because if it's difficult. It means you're going to be concentrating on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's a part of me that's like we don't lose that feature, whatever your Countess hold on to it and try to do it that way each time because it takes concentration. And guess what, oh, what about tomorrow. Well, my daughter, my little my sweetheart. What about where I'm living
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're concentrating trying to do this. Well, it takes your concentration and your mind will just
Ariel Mirabal: Exactly yeah zoned in on the stomach thing. You know, I was like, so relax. Definitely not thinking about anything else. But I wasn't so like
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know. I was just really relaxed and I was focusing on probably the biggest thing was just making sure that I wasn't like, you know, taking just a big gasps instead, you know, making sure my belly is going out of that so
Gwenevere Abriel: So you had this time you had lots of things happening novelty concentration you weren't have dual mind who are literally just concentrating actually on
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe you heard my voice. Okay, or something to try and do with this, ladies. Tell me what do these numbers on a train cars. Right. So your mind was all on all these things. I'm trying to sort of put in front of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And no time to sort of be distracted by other things. And of course, you already heard the physiological impact the right the the nerve that's being activated there. So you had both
Gwenevere Abriel: A top down effect, which is cognitive and we have a visceral bottom up effect, which is neat. So this is just like so amazing.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm going to teach my boyfriend today. Maybe you can count on.
Gwenevere Abriel: You you perfect it yourself and then pass it along. We do it for our kids when they're feeling just completely emotionally just regulated. Okay, we're going to solve this. But first, let's see if we can
Gwenevere Abriel: How can we expand that belly. Let's get a big balloon down there. We regulate our bodies we teach and pass this along to our kids know how to
Gwenevere Abriel: How to regulate their own emotions. It's really exciting. So definitely, we're going to pass that along love that you want to pass that to your, to your husband. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: We that'd be awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so, um, there's more. But I want to dip a little bit into some some context, in your life, kind of get an understanding of some of your pressures. I heard
Gwenevere Abriel: I heard something about a move kind of want to know how you're doing.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm we're stable right now, I'm just very thankful that we have family. I'm a little bit of family here to help. I can't even believe we're in this position right now. I never thought that at the age of 31 I would be
Ariel Mirabal: With my four year old little girl and staying with parents, you know, it's just it was it was a shock to me.
Ariel Mirabal: Still trying to ease to that for a little bit, but things are going well. We're, we're really stable right now. I'm so thankful for that there is a lot of stress.
Ariel Mirabal: I just try to right now. I'm trying to stay busy around the house. Make sure you know I get my daughter outside so she can run off for energy, since we can't go anywhere, you know, but as far as the living situation. I'm just, I'm kind of stressed, we're a little
Ariel Mirabal: On two ends of what to do here with, you know, well, we have to wait out the coronavirus thing before we can start
Ariel Mirabal: You know, getting back into work. Thankfully my boyfriend is is still working. He's a solar installs lead solar installer. So some people rely on solar panels, you know, for their electricity, things like that. So thankfully it was deemed a necessity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, good.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, so we were very, very thankful for that his parents, though the ones we're staying with they're both actually out of work. So we're kind of going to be able to hold it down for them for a little bit.
Ariel Mirabal: I haven't been I got my insurance license. Last year I haven't been at work for a couple of months I'm hopefully going to start sometime in April. Crossing my fingers.
Ariel Mirabal: So I can start using my insurance. Insurance again. But until then, he's basically the only person working. So it's a little stressful.
Ariel Mirabal: But we're trying to we're definitely we're helping we're helping a lot. So that's makes me feel really good. We're kind of pulling the weight here and helping
Ariel Mirabal: We're just basically here for each other, it was the right time. I guess that this
Ariel Mirabal: Kind of happen. So the move thing is when we start trying to like crawl back out and get out there, you know, get our own house. I want to buy a house. I'm really tired of renting, it's really
Ariel Mirabal: It's like, you know, it's burning your money every month. So I hate it. I hate when a team. I'm tired of moving to
Ariel Mirabal: I just want to find a place to stay there. But that's it. I mean, just kind of waiting this whole thing out until we can start looking for places to rent again.
Ariel Mirabal: Unless my credit score. Right. And it was a 641 so it's not too bad. But I'm trying to get it obviously a little bit hired so that we can buy a house. This year I want to buy
Gwenevere Abriel: You mentioned, I'm gonna go grab a blanket. I'm gonna have my air conditioners turned up way too high. I can barely feel my nose. And then I want to, I want to talk to you a little bit about one of your goals that I saw in here and
See what you think about it, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think I'm gonna get to get to two blankets. Yeah. Yay ACS not so. Okay, I feel better. So, you sound like you're handling, you've got good reframe like okay yeah you know why am I
Gwenevere Abriel: The sage. I really be at this house, but you can see what also to be grateful for. It sounds like you're able to do both sort of some
Gwenevere Abriel: Some reframing some positive thoughts and you can find some gratitude. It sounds like
Ariel Mirabal: I try to be optimistic about everything because, you know, there's really nothing we can do to change the situation right and
Gwenevere Abriel: Goodness. I mean, honestly, I'm glad your husband's working
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, thank goodness. Thank goodness. My goodness. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to review some of the stuff we talked about when we first met, one of the things was
Gwenevere Abriel: Increase exercise. I want to become a gym member the timing on that for now might be a little off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because, you know, I don't even know. Places like that, or even open because
Gwenevere Abriel: So what if we just amended it for a little while until our global crisis is over.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would feel like.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. What would feel like progress for you. In other words, you said increase exercise which we've gotta do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gotta be in motion. These bodies were made promotion that's supposed to lay in bed and kind of keep moving and grooving so many good things happen actually saw our brain continues to not atrophy. We've got to exercise. It's really important.
Gwenevere Abriel: Brain growth hormone so
Gwenevere Abriel: How much exercise do you do currently. So let's get a baseline and then I want you to see how you would be able to say, Okay, I think I could reach this much exercise.
Gwenevere Abriel: And, you know, let's say we said it for a month. And you could say, all right, I did it I reach this goal, how much you exercising now and how much would you like to exercise increase it to your weekly
Ariel Mirabal: Right now, and I basically I'm always on my feet around the house. I've got my daughter. So if I'm not cleaning doing dishes cooking or building clothes. I am playing with her. So I'm pretty active
Ariel Mirabal: With her. But as far as you know like jogging and stuff. I don't go running. I used to be a runner. When I was really young I loved it so it kind of
Ariel Mirabal: I feel like that's something that I want to try to get back to I know that running and cardio is really good for your heart and your health and things. I would love to start doing that. But right now I just every day, once a day, I take my dog for a walk. That's really
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I want to run, but maybe that might be something. Are you saying you might look at it in six months, maybe or something.
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, I could start jogging even like my dog always wants to run, of course, he's a boxer. He's always wanting to run. And I'm like, No, no, slow down. I just want to walk, you know, and I feel like why
Ariel Mirabal: Why am I like that. No, I'm just, I'm 31. Am I getting old. Am I just try not
Ariel Mirabal: Do I not want to run anymore. Like I just, I don't understand. I can't call myself lazy. I don't think I'm a new person, but I just feel like something's happened over time. I don't feel, you know, I just don't have the, what is that like the the motivation, the
Ariel Mirabal: Like the self discipline to just, you know what I mean, to just get up and run the day by myself. Maybe I need to have somebody with me to do it. I don't know. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we can further we can explore that. But remember, this is a goal you identified so it was increase exercise. What would feel like yep I did it I increase exercise, not the way I define it, not the way your husband, not a friend you, what do you want to see.
Ariel Mirabal: I want to see myself and again after probably after this crisis is over, I would like to see myself consistently going to the gym at least three times a week.
Ariel Mirabal: I would love to do that, see myself doing that at least three times a week. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So as far as the this coming month I wrote that one down. Um, but crisis. I'm assuming we're talking about
The
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, what the heck is that cold, the
Ariel Mirabal: Vaccine
Gwenevere Abriel: Is discovered right I'm assuming that's what we're saying we're talking about the same thing. Well, that's an unknown right so I'm talking right now about you and your exercise. Currently, just do you want to see any change.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, well right now as far as being at home. I guess maybe trying to
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know how much change. I could really make as far as unless it's just running, you know, because I'm I do a lot here at home with my daughter. So I guess really the only change. I just want to start going to the gym. I can't really as far as exercising.
Ariel Mirabal: There's not really a lot more that I want to do here other than just continuing to maybe take my daughter for walks with my dog and things. Maybe we can just because we do it every evening so
Ariel Mirabal: We try to stay active. That way, but I don't know, maybe just trying to think about more activities to do at home with my daughter as opposed to it inside all the time because we're inside a lot
Ariel Mirabal: We're outside. But we, I kind of, I feel like we do, we do chalk when we're outside we she rides her bike. We have a few bikes. So she rides her bike that's another thing she does.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm just like, I need to expand my mind a little bit and try to do things because I'm always doing things with her that the same stuff all the time in the backyard.
Ariel Mirabal: That we normally do we paint and die. We do arts and crafts we polar, but I want to maybe expand things and try to do things with her that
Ariel Mirabal: Like, look up new things to do and get new ideas and try to do stuff with her, you know, like teach her how to play I we just did soccer. She hasn't really done soccer very often.
Ariel Mirabal: So we did soccer. The other day in the backyard. That was kind of new. But I wanted to do other things. You know, I'm just, I have a hard time expanding my mind ideas for
Gwenevere Abriel: That might be it. So I think for now we're going to pull these apart your goal as you stated it increase exercise. I want to become a gym member that is set for April 18 let's change that goal. I'm going to push it to like June for now.
And
Gwenevere Abriel: So that when the topic comes up because I review these every month there won't be. This will have you got a gym membership, it won't be like that, it'll be more like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to write a
Gwenevere Abriel: Write a new one, right, a new goal.
Ariel Mirabal: A goal to
Oh,
Ariel Mirabal: Oh wait till you're done though if you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I want to research, I think I heard you say want to research more fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: Activities to do with my daughter.
Pinterest.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so, so we're gonna that's a goal. And then there's some actions which I would call a objectives.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that objectives client will. So this is where it comes down to. Hmm, well what's gotten in the way of you using let's say the internet to look up things or is it talk to people about it. What do you think's gotten in the way of getting
Gwenevere Abriel: More knowing more activities.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, honestly I think right now stress in my day to day life because when my daughter was first born I was that mom like I feel like when I say that. Mom, I'm still I still feel like I'm a really good mom. I'm a great mother.
Ariel Mirabal: I love my daughter and I'm always playing, you know, we're always doing something together but
Ariel Mirabal: I just, I feel like before I, excuse me, I got a little bit deeper into the alcohol that also got in the way. Was my addiction to alcohol and the opiates as well.
Ariel Mirabal: As much as I always thought that the opiates weren't changing me at all or getting in the way, for any reason, they kind of where they would make me a more tired.
Ariel Mirabal: And after a while, I started noticing that those things and how my addiction was getting in the way.
Ariel Mirabal: My stress. I was just starting to get more stressed about things that I couldn't keep up on bills, you know, stuff like that. So, things just started going downhill. And I remember the way I used to be and I compare myself.
Ariel Mirabal: Right now to how I was when my daughter was about one years old, one year old because I was
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, I was the same person. And I was so much different. I was always just so i was i was so much more attentive.
Ariel Mirabal: And right now I feel like I'm very attentive but i like i said i remember how I was before I had these ideas of what to do with her all the time, new ideas. I was always on Pinterest and
Ariel Mirabal: Looking at things to do. I would make. I had a mulberry tree in my backyard. I went and picked him all berries and we made a mulberry pie in the kitchen. You know, I would do stuff like that. And it's like,
Ariel Mirabal: What happened to me. I'm not the same person. I don't. It feels like I'm not the same person. I don't do those things anymore, nothing fun comes out of me. Like, no new ideas like a religion that's
Ariel Mirabal: It's always the same things every day, like, Hey, let's go outside religion ride a bike or let's go swing and let's go do chalk. I'm starting to feel like she's she needs something else. You know, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Why one way for us to look is we can say the goal is to get to research more
Gwenevere Abriel: What keeps you and I heard you. I heard you say stress, I heard you just had this recent move
Gwenevere Abriel: But what is something that you could do more of over the next couple weeks that might result in having some more creative ideas. What, what are some actions, you could take
Ariel Mirabal: Um, I mean, I don't get on Pinterest, because I feel like I'm always running around like a chicken with no head doing things. So maybe I can just try to
Ariel Mirabal: This is what I'm encountering blurred to I'm trying to slow down my mind. So I'm not always running a million miles an hour, and I, I need to be able to like we were just talking about with the breathing thing I need to be able to just like just
Ariel Mirabal: Just calm down sometimes and block out all of these running thoughts and like you know
Ariel Mirabal: Not everything has to be done at once, you know, just take it day by day, just calm down, everything's going to come together. I just always want everything to be fixed. Right now, you know, like
Ariel Mirabal: It's just, I'm a very impatient person, I feel like. And that's another goal I have, I really need to patients with my daughter.
Ariel Mirabal: I don't want to be the parent that uses flies off the handle after she for five after five seconds, you know, and just yell at her, you know i don't i don't spank her. I'm not
Ariel Mirabal: That kind of a parent. I try not to. It's usually like a slap on the hand or, you know, things like that. But I've noticed that sometimes lately.
Ariel Mirabal: When I get. And I noticed, like if I'm stressed or not. It's like if she does something wrong.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm monitoring. It's supposed to be teaching them you know you did something wrong. Don't do it again. Now she's 14 and she's getting to the point where
Ariel Mirabal: You know she's got her little people call it the terrible twos, but I never had terrible twos with her. She has an awesome kid. The whole time until well now she's
Ariel Mirabal: Working she's starting to she's pushing the patients, you know, she'll do things immediately after you can learn how to do it.
Ariel Mirabal: And she'll push it and then now we're at his parents. So they're here to see everything. And it's, I think that frustrates me so much more sometimes because I'm trying to discipline my daughter. And then I have
Ariel Mirabal: Like his mom is over here I can see her just standing in the corner watching you know and I feel, I feel
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know, I just feel like embarrassed. Like, I don't want to. I don't want to discipline. My daughter in front of people. I don't want to be even. I don't even want to get angry at her.
Ariel Mirabal: But that's my problem is, I'm supposed to be showing her hey that's bad. Don't do it. I'm not supposed to be showing her that I'm mad at her. I don't want her to think I'm mad at her, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: I don't want her to feel that, but she does, because I do get angry at her. I just want her to know I'm not angry at you. I'm just what you did.
Ariel Mirabal: And I have a hard time not getting so upset. I just, I don't know what it is, but even when I tell myself. Don't get so mad. Don't get so mad like two seconds later, I'm like, no, don't do that. Stop like and you know and I get so upset.
Ariel Mirabal: And right afterwards. I feel so bad. And I'll, I'll wait a few minutes, and she's in trouble and she's crying and then I'll go pick her up and give her a hug and kiss, and I'll tell her I'm sorry. It's okay.
Ariel Mirabal: You know, don't cry. I'm so sorry that I got mad at you, honey. But you got to listen to mom and I'll try to give her love and explained to her.
Ariel Mirabal: You know why I, you know, speaking to her, or why I got upset with her or something. But for some reason, I just feel so terrible inside for getting so upset. I always feel so terrible afterwards always
Ariel Mirabal: I just that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the behavior that you would like to see less of what would it be
Ariel Mirabal: It would be
Ariel Mirabal: Me raising my voice daughter.
Ariel Mirabal: I want to be able to not, I want to be able to gain more patients with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so behaviorally you'll be able to measure client will decrease yelling. That's the behavior you want to decrease. That's the one.
Ariel Mirabal: I was probably multiple I just can't think of the right words to use right now. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: What about something you said something you do with your voice. Is there anything else you do with your body that you want us to decrease
Ariel Mirabal: Um,
Ariel Mirabal: I don't do anything else at raising my voice and maybe
Ariel Mirabal: The way that I look, I don't really know how to say that. But the way that I look the way that I express my emotions, even through my face okay mad at her, you know, like, I don't want to be scary. I don't want to scare her and be
Ariel Mirabal: You know, I just want to teach her. I want to teach her and I want her because I've noticed that
Ariel Mirabal: She's very different with my boyfriend's mom and of course that's grandma, my mom, I get it. The kids are always different with Grandma, but
Ariel Mirabal: She is a little different. She has more patience and she has a different way about who when railing. My daughter's name is Caitlin been railing listener and she does something my grandmother will just
Ariel Mirabal: You know it. Okay, I'll leave you alone and you know she'll do things like that. And so when other things come up and railings and a big screaming fit or something and Arlene will have some kind of a way to calm her down.
Ariel Mirabal: A lot quicker than I can, because I'll go over there and try to calm my daughter down and tell her. Okay then, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know if I'm just not saying the right things, but I make her even more mad. She gets more mad, and she starts screaming at me like at her mom screaming at her mother right in front of grandma and grandpa. And I'm just sitting here like I just want to cry.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh, so my knowing I'm sorry.
I know
Ariel Mirabal: Has made her. It's like she picked it up and now she goes back at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's
Ariel Mirabal: I'm feeling like it's I feel like it's my fault that she
Ariel Mirabal: But she acts like this. Sometimes
Ariel Mirabal: That's why some people can like even my wife and she did it last night and my boyfriend came out and he picked her up and he said, Honey, it's okay.
Ariel Mirabal: You know, you need to calm down. And for some reason, as soon as he picks her up. She just she called it down right away you know she knows she did something wrong. And she's in trouble. But it's like
Ariel Mirabal: She's okay but she hates me for whatever's just happened, you know, and then when I try to, for whatever anything else happened. She's mad at her Barbie doll or something she gets she gets really upset. She has a
Ariel Mirabal: short temper, just like I do. So she gets upset with something that happens with something and she gets really upset, like just brings it on the floor or something. And I'll go to try to help her. And like I said, I just, I just don't know.
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe it's me. I don't know if I'm, I'm not. I don't have the right type of patients for when she's doing those things I'll say the right things to her. I don't know what it is, but she just gets more mad and she'll just start screaming
Ariel Mirabal: At me and telling me go away. Mom Get away from me, you know, and she she doesn't act like that with other people, very often, so
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's, let's do a couple of those breaths and let's let's let that the magic of this work in real time. So notice that you're you're you're talking about something really important
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do some of that breathing just on your own terms just breathing it into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Making sure you're breathing again mindfully down into the bottom of the lung.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm and hold it for even a few seconds. And when you're ready, then just slowly exhale super slow
Hold it out if you can
Bring it in.
Ariel Mirabal: Already
Gwenevere Abriel: deep belly breath. There it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just even this amount. And yes, you had someone arrived, but just even, even where you were two seconds ago to where you are now just sort of falling back and forth and see see what's different between how you were feeling physically and emotionally compared to even now that tiny change.
Ariel Mirabal: A lot more. I feel better already. It definitely helps.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I want to tell you what you what you're bringing up is obviously very meaningful for you, your relationship with your daughter, the importance of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Teaching her something. And what if you're teaching her son, something you don't want to be teaching her. What if you're responsible somehow for this yelling and
Gwenevere Abriel: So I can hear all of that self blaming and now I've got witnesses to it. And what are they thinking about me and right us getting really complicated because there's these other people here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And why is she not crying with them and how she treated in that Barbie doll. And why can't I see with my daughter so lots. This is a complicated phenomena.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not worried
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, Well, I don't care. I know you, lady. A good for you.
But
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason I'm not worried is because you named it, it means it's not unconscious. It means you're saying is it me
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it her look at the difference, you're conscious you're awake. You're seeing whatever pieces of this that you can, you're trying it on to see am I responsible for this and you came in here and said, You know what, when
Gwenevere Abriel: I think there might be some goals around. I want to be more patient. I know I want to teach this particular behavior to my daughter, but in reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm short tempered, I find myself with a face that it's not what I want to communicate. I want to have a teaching face, but I have an angry face.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. OK. So the reason I'm not worried is because you're already far along into the self awareness into the humility that it's going to take to quickly make changes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you already are aware of your voice, you're already aware that your face is doing something that sending a message to her that you don't want that's already advanced
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so give yourself credit for that you have insight you, it may still feel like I can inhibit the impulse to urgently address whatever infraction, she's made. But still you're able to talk about it now. And that's a big deal. The fact that you're able to do that is really cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the actual phenomenon, the etiology of it. I don't know yet. I don't know what it is. I don't know if what's happened
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be a combination of maybe some pieces of early childhood stuff some conditioning that we can we can delve into and it also could be that you've done.
Gwenevere Abriel: neurologically some you've done a little damage with the with the alcohol and you download damage in there. So, but that heals. Thank goodness for neural plasticity. Our brain grows back. So it grows and we're going to get better and so that impulse control part
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you just learned something that will create time. So if it's about impulse. Let's say the carpet, you know, let's say it's that fast. I'm
Ariel Mirabal: Thought you were talking to your dog.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is out there making it up but but my I was role modeling and saying, yeah, our redirection is almost instantaneous as soon as we see an infraction, are you noticing it happens that fast like
Gwenevere Abriel: You're cutting. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you just learn something that can be used all over the place. It can be used for our own emotional regulation, it can be used to
Gwenevere Abriel: prepare ourselves for a difficult conversation. It can be used for soon as you get consciousness in the morning, sort of this sort of meditative state. It can be used all kinds of places. The more you practice it during the day. Let's say you practice it 10 times a day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Three times, I'll take three you then you do 10 then you forget you're doing it, you're doing so often. So the more you do it, the more what this one because I'm only touching one new skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one thing can be used for what we're talking about right now, which is this relationship with daughter, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Anytime you are about to walk into a room. Anytime you hear a loud crash screech any kind of sound you do at least one cycle. So let. Now if you think someone's bleeding, obviously, you know, you're going to go, you're going to go
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I'm not talking about that stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the kid falls, don't sit there and breathe. First is
Ariel Mirabal: Running. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not, I'm not an unreasonable.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you get my idea like, Oh, she just colored on the wall.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, don't
Gwenevere Abriel: It's that so it's the colors already on the wall, the dishes already broken the food is already spilled. And if it's not glass and someone's walking in there. So if I can wait so
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can possibly pull this off as soon as the thing happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: The perceived threat is going to be almost instantaneous like this is going to be a problem. You know, this is the problem. She's doing something they shouldn't do. If you can get in the habit of breathing. So it would be about this much time so
Gwenevere Abriel: That much time just passed. I took a breath. It was a mindful breath I breathe in, breathe out. That's it. Too much time. I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: She may have taken a couple extra steps, but by then guess what happens because I regulated my otherwise really activated body all the blood was rushing to my large muscle groups.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it made its way into this part of my brain and also the left side, which is where we have stored information on
Gwenevere Abriel: You can remember things better. You're going to remember cool techniques up. Remember, remember, I want to be a teacher.
Gwenevere Abriel: How can I turn this into a learning environment. What it's going to do is it's going to give you this amazing thing called time
Gwenevere Abriel: Time to remember that breath does just
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey baby, and now I find my rest I find my sweet tongue at what's going on. What happened, I can find it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I come at it there. I come at it from concern.
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus
Gwenevere Abriel: Anger. Anger.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to we can get into the whole phenomenon of what's really the distress underneath.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this breath thing could make the difference because you may already because remember you said, I used to be able to be more patient used to kind of do this a little bit better before
Gwenevere Abriel: What the breath might do without even learning any new cognitive pieces or parenting skills or something you probably already have them in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if it's remembering how mother in law sounded or did like this morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey baby cakes. What's up, you know how much you want that breath will give you time to remember
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's all you need. And then, so you'll be you'll be in a relaxed body, the muscles will have relaxed your walk over your tone won't be as tense, you'll speak to her, probably in a little calmer tone and guess what your daughter will notice
Gwenevere Abriel: It's an interesting thing. We have also science has this these mirror neurons that have you ever been around someone who's kind of anxious and you're like, I do not like being around this person, I feel it. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: That yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Or if you're some of that's really like confident and like kind of relax and you're like, I'm gonna I'm gonna hang out with them. Makes me feel good to
Gwenevere Abriel: works the other way around to and children, children respond to our parents emotions. So, and we to them. So if we regulate
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to be.
Gwenevere Abriel: What my daughter can feel I want my daughter to fill regulated. I'm going to, I'm going to be regulated around her. So she mirrors that so I'm going to be regulated. Then I'm going to go in the room and be like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh do that mess. What's up at that, huh, you need some help. Yeah, I don't know how you talk to her. I sound just a goofball. So
Gwenevere Abriel: Lots of different lots of voices.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I try to make her laugh as much as I can.
Gwenevere Abriel: You supposed to have for cookies. The most to
Gwenevere Abriel: Know how to counter for. So lots of play. So you remember play, that's great. But you'll remember play. And that's your in
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's just another opportunity.
Gwenevere Abriel: To have a game. It's just another game.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just stick with the mirror neuron concept. Let's just stick with that other people will say they'll call
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm an empath or they'll say, I am I'm empathetic. I have compassion. I really feel for other people. I'm very sensitive. So there's some other words that people sort of like, Yeah, I kind of get rich talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: But children have it too. So maybe your daughter is on your tension, you're picking up on her. Is it just keeps you guys just back and forth and back and forth, and so she
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, she can't regulate with you because somehow she sensing
Ariel Mirabal: All the tension me. Yeah. Like, I'm so frustrated and then she gets even more upset and starts like
Ariel Mirabal: Calling for her dad or something. She'll do that even sometimes and I feel like that's exactly what it is because she feels that I'm angry and it's making her more upset so
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm wrong about this hypothesis we can come at it from another angle. But that wouldn't surprise me because I'm we can do an experiment, if you want to you can be like, Okay, Imma try this freedom.
Ariel Mirabal: Thing. It sounds like that's exactly what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it can, if it's true, it, the, it will make it the change will be pretty quick, you'll start to see a real difference and you'll knock on the door like in a gummy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want to come in, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, and you'll come in and
Like
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh, talking about something.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I noticed that the toys are still on the floor.
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you are you
Not enough
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Um, but, so then we we ask a question we we lean, we have the time compassion and interest, ask a question instead of needing to be right we lean into curiosity.
Gwenevere Abriel: We did, we still wanting to play with them. Is that why you didn't put them away, or did you have a plan, or I mean I know sometimes I forget. Did you forget because
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I'm good at remembering sometimes kids aren't so good at remembering mommies and daddies are much better remembering things because kids, they want to go off and they play with the next fun thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it that you, is it that you forgot. Yeah, forgot. Okay, well let's go put them away together. Okay, so that's one piece. Now that could go sideways like many different drum
Ariel Mirabal: Sounds know like she's getting to the point now where she thinks it's funny to me know some when I tried to get her to do stuff. And it's really hard sometimes like she
Ariel Mirabal: She threw a fit yesterday morning, because, I mean, it's usually all the time and she hates one brush your hair. She hates it. Mom. I'll be really gentle, I promise. And she just hates it. He hates her hair being brush. She just hates it.
Ariel Mirabal: So it's like a fight every day when I have to brush your hair.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, every day or every night when we get out of the bathtub or every just every time I brush your hair. She gets set and it's always a no.
Ariel Mirabal: And that's when the fighting starts. It's like I feel like sometimes I'm literally fighting with my daughter fighting with a little four year olds, because I'm
Ariel Mirabal: Trying to get her to
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, I'm like, you know, what do I do, whether you like it or not, I'm gonna brush your hair you know it's getting to that point because she just so I don't even know what to do.
Ariel Mirabal: When it comes to, like, to the point where she has to do something, but she's not letting me do it. You know what I mean, like,
Ariel Mirabal: Let's hold it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let's
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have a lot a lot of time we move pretty quickly. We but hey, we got some good stuff here. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: One part of this is if it's true that we're onto something with the I will be physically, emotionally, what I want my daughter to be
Gwenevere Abriel: I want her to feel in her own tiny little four year old body calm, confident, relaxed regulated. I'll be that. So we can start there. That's a big one, because I'm imagining right the additional pressure of having witnesses to your distress and all the stress was going
Gwenevere Abriel: On I get the embarrassment piece but you know with this you might like it. Now you'll have witnesses to. And they might say, well, what you doing, and I just work just taking a deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of and I'm going to be teaching this to my daughter to, kind of, you know, learning how to really do it well myself wondering if maybe she's copycatting me so I'm coming at it a little differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to go talk to her. So when you talk to her. And then there's calmer voices and there's a lot to do. There's a lot that comes after this. There's naming what you're doing, you know, mommy's taking a deep breath, you want to take one with me.
Ariel Mirabal: But my teacher also
Gwenevere Abriel: gets old, though, so we got to put a pin in it, but that thing you said just now, about a good a brush your hair. Regardless, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, I want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you Arielle the importance of brushed hair seems to be really important
Gwenevere Abriel: There's something really important going on for your four year old, and I wonder right at that point.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you guys clash something's really important to you and it's really important to her, and it seems to be happening around the brush hair.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know that it's she wants her hair tangled. I think she wants to feel something and saying no to you will get it for her. So let me say that again. I think your daughter wants to feel something. And so she's using know
Gwenevere Abriel: To brushing hair in order to feel something. And I wonder if it's
Gwenevere Abriel: She gets to say notice something or she gets to feel independent or she gets to push back she gets to feel confident smart, capable, I have no idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we human beings, regardless of our age, we want to feel a particular way. Happy strong something that's what we're motivated by your daughter's motivated by something obviously very unconscious, but you as an adult with the couple minutes we have left. What do you want to feel
Gwenevere Abriel: With her hair beautifully combed. What will you feel
Ariel Mirabal: Well, I feel
Uh huh.
Ariel Mirabal: No, I mean,
Ariel Mirabal: Better accomplished and just want to make sure that she
Gwenevere Abriel: Stay with that accomplished stay with that I feel accomplished. I see my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tiny hair.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, like I'm doing everything right you know I'm I want to make sure that I'm doing everything right as a mother, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: A good mom. Yeah, I can try learning stuff every day and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a good month
Gwenevere Abriel: It is evidence for all to see. I'm a good mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, everyone can see your hair. She looks beautiful. It's done. Obviously you're taking care of her. You're a good mom. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: You take care of them, definitely has to be something there, too. I just I want her to feel good to and feel confident and feel pretty you know I want her to be able to feel
Ariel Mirabal: You know, sometimes she'll tell me, Mom, can you put my hair in and also braid. You know, like
Ariel Mirabal: So I'll put a braid and it just a single great in her hair and thanks mom like, so sometimes she likes it. Sometimes she gets excited but it's like it has to be like the right time or
Ariel Mirabal: It's just usually she isn't she doesn't want me to comb her hair, but she's okay if I'm you know I give her hair is combed if I'm done combing your hair and that's all it is. I'm going to just put a braid in her hair.
Ariel Mirabal: So you know I know she's already she's there with the princess dress stuff she dresses up and she tries to put my high heels on and
Ariel Mirabal: Look, Mom, look what I'm hearing you know I know she there with the and I want her to feel like that too. I think it's so sweet and how she get the way that she gets so excited about things just small things like that, too.
Ariel Mirabal: So it's, it's like a combination of things. Okay, I'm sure I'm doing the right thing as a mother and making sure that I
Ariel Mirabal: I'm I'm doing the right thing every day. I want to make sure that I'm being a good mother to my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's your that's your part. So when you because you'll run into it the next few days. This is where your power can come from. It's a little fresh, it can be all breeze. And then this this kind of conversation might come to memory might remember it and think
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I know I want to feel proud as a mom. And that's my business. So watch this. This is tricky because you think a four year old what what know so I stay on my side.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to feel like a good mom my daughter will have this pretty hair. I'm good. I'm attentive. I helped her with your princess outfit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, she her heads all Raggedy she has a cute outfit. Oh, I don't feel like the best mom if she's like halfway costume job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch the difference. That's about you, Mom. So here's we put, if this is happening. I could be really wrong. It could be very off here. But if this is it. Then we back off and we were like this. She asked me to do her hair.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's me wanting to feel like a good mom right now that's about my agenda, me, me, me, but your daughter is feeling fancy dancy in our little outfit and she don't want to do with the hair so she might be having her own even though she's four years old. She's got her own need
Gwenevere Abriel: To know what's wild, but they do as little critters. Remember when you were little, you had your own opinion. You remember how people would be like, aren't you cute, you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Me.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, I'm not just here to be cared for you, let me alone. You don't we have our own. We actually have our own little opinions and feelings, even that little
Gwenevere Abriel: And so she's like fancy dancy beautiful cute look her up and you're thinking, well, I could do her hair like gorgeous. But that's not where she's at
Ariel Mirabal: She just wants to play and where her little dress. Yeah, I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see it. So, so she's in the space. Maybe I'm guessing. I'm pretty look at look at I'm doing this and this and then you're like,
Ariel Mirabal: You know need to do her hair and yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: It's, it could be heard from a four year old. I'm not enough just just the way I am. I'm not enough just cute and wonderful just like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: With my hair.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like this.
Ariel Mirabal: I don't want to become and
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's, it's hard for us parents to say, whoa.
Gwenevere Abriel: Make it better. I can make it better, better, better, better, better, better, but that's for our need
Gwenevere Abriel: When we give our little ones permission.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be just right, even when they're kind of Katie Wallace the unconditional love that the shows them is just
Gwenevere Abriel: It's such a gift, but it does mean that we have to stay on our side of the emotional fence and kind of in a sense mind our own business. Like, literally, like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Is this my knee or her Nietzsche and asked me to do her hair. Oh. Oh my gosh. Everybody's going to think of a terrible Mom, look at she's got two different thoughts on you know I'm right. That's our need for our daughter to look like good so that
Gwenevere Abriel: We just look like
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I don't know. I don't know if I'm on anything. Let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Just check in with you before we head out today. Once you to look inside and just notice this quiet rhythm, just see what came up
Gwenevere Abriel: That's important for you out of this discussion today.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh good, actually. I think that you are a lot of that is right. It's not a huge thing for me too.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm not I care more about the way my daughter feels then about the way other people think about me, for instance, I care more about
Ariel Mirabal: Her feelings towards me when he feels about herself. I care more about that.
Ariel Mirabal: Than I do about people, but I do know that it is still a factor because the things you said about like, you know, I'm not going to get myself all dressed and ready inheritor and everything and let my daughter come out with me with her.
Ariel Mirabal: Hair all crazy and, you know, two different socks. I would never do that. Of course I would want to, you know, when we're going out somewhere.
Ariel Mirabal: And it's true. You're right about that because she doesn't care about getting all dressed up fancy shoes hair. Perfect. Nice. She just want to. I'm sure she wants to just look you, and let's go have fun, let's go play, you know, we're going
Ariel Mirabal: You know co going all out and everything that's definitely part of me as a mom thinking, oh, she's gonna look so cute. You know, like everybody that sees her, you know, she's so cute. Of course, that's definitely something as far as
Ariel Mirabal: Her though I do. I know that it's my main concern is just the way that she feels about herself and even in front of people. I want her to feel confidence and I want her to feel beautiful. And I want her to feel good about herself, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So she feels pretty
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, I put put yourself in in her little shoes to picture aren't there days when you're like, I am just, I just want to go. Want to go and I don't have to get us up. Just want to go, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, times, you know, because that that connection between what other people think hasn't really sunk into a four year old. So they're just like, I just, I want to go from point A to point B, what difference does it make, what I look like.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's us adults as socialized critters.
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and every family is different and you'll find your comfortable space around that. But if she's happy and feeling good. We can name it. What is that what is the difference, you could play with that one, too. You know what
Gwenevere Abriel: I might be being a little, a little silly. Um, can we find an in between, you still have your jammies on
Gwenevere Abriel: Adults LOOK AT MOMMY'S kind of sideways like if we don't put our kids in close is there. You got two shirts. You got this, and closed ended choices are nice because then they only choose from those two things. Do you want to wear the pink dress or the blue t shirt and the flip flops.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can name it, we can say this is about me, right, because we don't want to blame them. It's we name it and say this is my thing. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, when we go out
Gwenevere Abriel: Adults LOOK AT MOMMY'S when their kids are in jammies and they kind of look out and like, like I'm a bad mom or something. So can we pick between putting this on or that on and then they have to choose those two options, or do you want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just the low ponytail, just to sort of bunch it up or do you want to actually comment on the way over, and I'll put it in a ponytail forced choice so
Gwenevere Abriel: See, there's actually a lot of other things to do in between, not getting done getting done. There's nuances in there. There's little tiny choices, where she can feel a sense of efficacy
Ariel Mirabal: And it all dances around patients. I really need to have patience to be
Ariel Mirabal: Able to slow down and
Ariel Mirabal: Do those things. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll get it if the breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because really,
Ariel Mirabal: I'm really going to do that practice that today. I mean, all day. This just happened yesterday with
Ariel Mirabal: Some it's still pretty fresh in the mind and all that. So I'm going to be trying that today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it'll create enough time and by time. I mean, sometimes fraction of a second is on the
Ariel Mirabal: It really
Gwenevere Abriel: It happens that fast, you're like,
Ariel Mirabal: Thank you so much for showing me that it's definitely gonna be today. Cool. I, I believe it's going to help me today. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so let's pick. Let's pick some some time to meet
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, oh, where we have one
Gwenevere Abriel: We already have one in place. We have April 1 at 8am. Oh, and then what did I say, see if someone so could switch. Oh, let me ask you something. I have a gentleman that
Gwenevere Abriel: Works and I wrote a little note to myself and pencil. You can obviously saying say no. But I just wanted to see if you'd like this. Would you be open to switching from 8am April 1 to 1:10pm April 1
Ariel Mirabal: What date is April 1 land on
Ariel Mirabal: Wednesday on a Wednesday and to switch to what time. I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were you currently at eight in the morning. It would be moved to 1pm well 110 I need to sneak a little lunch 110
Ariel Mirabal: Well, unfortunately, I wouldn't be able to convince still I'm lucky enough that my daughter is still asleep at 8am. So I'm able to do it well she's asleep.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's okay. Well, that's beautiful. I'm going to, I'm going to write the same little note, I'm going to see if, if, if I can make a little move somewhere else. So we're all set now.
Ariel Mirabal: We
Gwenevere Abriel: Have medication bridge to today that I need to send a medicine and a little must not let me rephrase, I don't want anybody to think that I prescribe I do not, do you want me to send a message to the physician that you attended today.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, if you could. I don't have any medication for today. So I'm just waiting. You're holding
Ariel Mirabal: Your breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today is it Dr Arielle
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, Dr. Donna. Okay, let me go to think okay
Here we go.
We got attended
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her next group is, is your group on Thursday.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes. Very season.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so this is what she'll probably do is Bridget to
Gwenevere Abriel: Wednesday, that's my guess. I don't know she'll do what she does. I just let him know you guys are here.
Ariel Mirabal: And no problem. Thank you. You bet.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well, I look forward to seeing you in the morning on Wednesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll do a quick little confrontation, hopefully on Tuesday night. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good to be good to you.